
1. Simulate the integrated model (Interated_model_circadian_gating.f) for day - 1 to day 4, if the phase plot is required for day 0 to day 3 time duration. 
2. Arrange all the trajectories in same directory where the python codes are present. Make sure all the trajectory files have proper index.
3. Run time_diiferentiation.py and enter the threshold in PPARGa obtained from ROC analysis. It will give an output file ‘Time_differentiation.out’ that contains the cell ids along with their differentiation time (time at which PPARGa crosses the threshold irreversibly) where the differentiation takes place within required time duration (day 0  to day 3). Change the values, if needed.
4. Run get_phase.py. Make sure all the output files and programs are in same directory. Here, only the differentiated cell trajectories are loaded. It will return Phase distribution, time distribution and phase-time plot to visualize gating and an output file ‘Diff_time_phase.out’ that contains cell ids, differentiation time and corresponding phase.
(Circadian reporter Rev expression will be a bit noisy due to stochasticity of the process. First, it is smoothen, maxima and minima are found. Then, peak and trough of rev expression are assigned. Peaks are considered to have phase 0 or 2pi whereas throughs have phase pi. The goal is to find the phase at the differentiation time. It is calculated by linear interpolation. 
Probable error: To differentiate maxima and minima in rev expression one prominency factor is to be chosen depending the rev expression and scaling factors, if for a time window peak and trough can not be distinctly recognized, code stop in the file. Suggestion: Please check ‘Time_differentiation.out’ and ‘Diff_time_phase.out’. The latter file excludes the cell IDs that experienced the problem.)
