1. Arrange all the trajectories in same directory where the python codes are present. Make sure all the trajectory files have proper index.
2. Now in all python codes, adjust axis details and variables to be plot.
3. Run Checking_some_trajectories.py to check some trajectories of your simulation to ensure proper stochastic profiles.
4. Run Distribution_Gaussian_fit.py. In this program, the last PPARGa expression (PPARGa expression at the end of the simulation) is noted against its cell id in actual_event.out file. A distribution plot will be showed based on the last expression. Then, 2 Gaussian distribution will be fitted over this (for preadipocyte and adipocyte). If there is no overlap region between two fits, then ROC concept can not be used. Therefore, modify your parameters and redo simulations. Overlap_data.out file will save where the overlap starts and ends.
5. Once the overlap region is detected, Run Making_decision.py. This is manual treatment. The files where the last expression falls in the overlap region will be encountered in this program. This program clarifies the Positive_distribution.out (the cells which commit differentiation) and Negative_distribution.out (the cells which remain as preadipocyte). Overlap region is crucial here because their fates are not distinctive.By running this program, those specific trajectories will show up one by one. Now, observe the trajectory whether it tends to go up or retains lower steady state. If it is going up then type y and enter, if it retain low s.s. type n and enter. 
6. Lastly Run ROC_plot.py. You will get ROC plot in 2D projection. It will show the threshold and AUC values ( to be noted manually). If AUC value is 1.0000 then the model is hyper realistic, i.e., two distinct distribution. Again you will get 3d view of the ROC plot.
